all right we're going to turn to one of
our top stories that's the aftermath of
multiple air strikes by Israeli forces
on the almasi area of Western uh Rafa uh
which took place on Saturday more than
90 people killed in that incident many
still missing Maha husseini is a
strategy director at euromed Human
Rights monitor she joins us now live
from Dera Bala in Gaza thanks for your
time so the attack obviously on almasi
sending shot waves across the entire
region we've seen Palestinians
protesting the attack in the occupied
West Bank even people in Iraq showing
their outrage there but still as we know
the death toll is around 90 many people
though still buried under the rubble
what more can you tell us about the
impact of this huge
attack hello good morning um well yes
unfortunately this has been a current a
recurrent crime in the G St across the
or throughout the past nine months it's
nothing new actually uh it's it's a
painful
thing to say now after nine months that
this has been recurrent for the past
nine months um since the first po
displacement order Israel made on the
13th of October 20 uh 23 when the
Israeli military ordered residents to
leave their homes and head to the
southern Gaza Valley the areas in the
southern Gaza Valley including Masis
have been under continuous and
indiscriminate uh bombardment so this
has been ongoing for nine months
straight uh this massacre yesterday is a
complex crime where Israel gathered
hundreds of thousands of civilians
through legal displacement orders in one
area that lacks the minimum life
standards and Necessities deprived them
from Basics uh like food water fuel
electricity for months then bumbed them
using at least five highly destructive
BMS then preventing any ambulances and
medical and civil defense screws from
reaching the area by directly opening a
fire at them our field team who have
been uh in the
area at the time of the attack
documented Israel's use even of drones
following the bombardment to open fire
directly at anyone or any vehicle trying
to evacuate the wounded um and we all
watched actually live uh the scene of
the civil defense Crews and members
lying in the ground among the very
victims they arrived to rescue um only a
CP coup of hours following this massacre
another Massacre was also committed in
the west of Gaza City where residents
were asked actually to move during the
ground invasion of the Eastern areas of
Gaza around a week ago and this is why
we say that this is systematic uh
because it's being practiced
regularly almost every day in Gaza since
the beginning of this war this genocide
in Gaza and against any Palestinian
across the STP right um actually uh we
have witnessed that Israel is
intensifying these attacks on
displacement centers and nearby areas
carrying out mass killings of civilians
and displac
individuals Maha only a few days ago the
UN Secretary General described the
situation for Palestinians in Gaza as
being like in the midst of a game of
pinball they're being forced from one
place to another they're assuming that
one area is safe only to find uh major
attacks like this what does that say to
you about the kind of War Israel's
conducting
well uh yes uh what's been happening
here is insane on so many levels uh the
mass yesterday is only an example of the
recurrent violations and recurrent war
crimes the Israeli Army ongoing war
crimes in Gaz including the repeated uh
targeted um uh killings of Palestinians
targeting of un flag shelter centers um
and killing of those inside and being um
committed these these crimes being
committed with the apparent intent to
eradicate Palestinians while also ring
them of all life Necessities with the
International Community also remaining
silent civilians are being used as a
tool of political pressure and blackmail
here in the G strip with no
justification for these crime we have
documented a a v variety of violations
uh Israel has been committing uh uh the
Israeli Army has been actually
perpetrating all types of violations
inside Gaza soldiers and the Army
officials are given a green light even
to do whatever they wish
including
Milling torture of civilians inside
their homes Maha we've got a very brief
question to ask you before we we move on
and that is where do you now see hopes
of a
ceasefire uh given what we've witnessed
in the past 48
Hours well unfortunately uh the the
escalation now resumes or continues as
uh uh folks about the ceas fire continue
or resume uh what what what we actually
see is that Israel is escalating these
attacks uh while these TOS are resuming
Israel is using uh Palestinians
Palestinian civilians and is is using
these displaced people as a tool of
pressure and um uh
intimidation uh during these talks so
what we are seeing now is that uh uh
there is no hope with Israel still
targeting the civilian population still
using the civilian population as a
Target
in okay Maha husseini good to hear your
thoughts thanks for joining us on Al
jaer make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer